Doc/new module tutorial (#102)
EVerest/EVerest: docs/tutorials/new_modules/index.rst

In that case you would add a respective `ev_add_module(<MODULE_NAME>)` line
for each of those.

Adding ``dependencies.yaml``
----------------------------

The ``find-package()`` CMake directive found in the previous sections is
handled by EDM.

In order for this to work, you need to add a dependency file for EDM, called
``dependencies.yaml``, in the project root directory. For example, listing
only ``everest-core`` as a dependency looks like this::

    ---
    everest-core:
      git: https://github.com/EVerest/everest-core.git
      git_tag: main

With the above setup taken care of, you are now ready to build the project.

Building
--------

When you auto-generated the code for the interfaces and modules, a ``build/``
directory should have appeared.

You can also build the project there - go to it, and configure the build::

    cd $EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/build
    CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$EVEREST_WORKSPACE cmake --install-prefix $EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/dist ..

Here, we added two instructions to cmake:

 - Setting `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$EVEREST_WORKSPACE` allows cmake to find the
   ``everest-cmake`` repository in the workspace.

>  - Specifying the `--install-prefix` will cause the resulting binary files
>    being put into the ``dist/`` folder in the modules repository. Drop this to
>    install EVerest and your module system-wide (which, however, usually
>    requires `sudo` permission)

Author: I'm not 100% sure this is true. Maybe we can just leave it at this:
```suggestion
 - Specifying the `--install-prefix` allows you to specify where the finished 
   binaries will be placed, e.g. into the ``dist/`` folder in the modules repository. 
   EVerest can be installed system wide (e.g. into ``users/local/bin``), but this 
   usually requires `sudo` permissions.
```

observer the module communication in EVerest.

With your MQTT broker running on localhost:1883, you should be able to connect
right away when opening MQTT explorer.

Then start (or re-start) the EVerest manager (as described above). You should
notice an `everest` topic popping up.

We can now publish a command to our self-written module. For this, choose the topic::

    everest/tutorial_module_instance/interface_impl_tutorial_module/cmd

and publish the JSON::

    {
      "data": {
        "args": {
          "payload": "Hello World!"
        },
        "id": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000042",
        "origin": "manual_test"
      },
      "name": "command_tutorial",
      "type": "call"
    }

Our module should return with a "everest" response (you may have to reselect
the `everest/tutorial_module_instance/interface_impl_tutorial_module/cmd`
on the left to refresh this view.

.. image:: img/mqtt_explorer_example.png

Debugging
---------

At the latest  when you start developing an actual module, it might come handy
to be able to debug your code. Thus, the following shall provide some
rudimentary steps to do so.

> *1) Rebuild with debug flags activates*

Author: ```suggestion
*1) Rebuild with debug flags enabled*
```

Rerun Cmake, this time with `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`, and rebuild::

    cd $EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/build
    CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$EVEREST_WORKSPACE cmake --install-prefix $EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/dist -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ..
    make -j <number of parallel jobs>

*2) Start EVerest with your module with your module marked as "standalone"*

With EVerest built as described before, but with the additonal option
``--standalone tutorial_module_instance``::

    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/dist/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH \
    PATH=$EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/dist/bin:$PATH \
    manager --prefix $EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/dist  --conf $EVEREST_MODULE_DIR/config/config-modules-tutorial.yaml --standalone tutorial_module_instance

This starts EVerest, but without your module. Instead, the output contains a
line::

    manager          :: Not starting standalone module: tutorial_module_instance

> Also, so far the output should be missing the `All modules are initialized.
> EVerest up and running` notification, since it keeps waiting for your module

Author: ```suggestion
Also, so far the output should be missing the ``All modules are initialized. EVerest up and running`` 
notification, since it keeps waiting for your module
```

In gdb, we set a break in the line that returns the payload when  your test
command is hit.
We then run the program (you might need to adjust the line number)::

    break modules/TutorialModule/interface_impl_tutorial_module/interface_tutorial_moduleImpl.cpp:17
    run

After the ``run`` command, you should notify in your Everest terminal that all
modules have now started. You may now again use MQTT Explorer as before and
send a command call via MQTT, this should hit your set breakpoint with a
output similar to::

    Thread 4 "tutorial_module" hit Breakpoint 1, module::interface_impl_tutorial_module::interface_tutorial_moduleImpl::handle_command_tutorial (this=0xaaaaaad24fc0, payload="mock_transaction_id") at /tmp/everest-tutorial-verify/modules/TutorialModule/interface_impl_tutorial_module/interface_tutorial_moduleImpl.cpp:17
    17	    return "everest";

Of course, you might setup your favorite IDE in a similar way for a nicer
debugging experience.

Exemplary Module Customizations
===============================

> Having prepared a buildable and runnable module, we can now extend the logic
> of our implementation. This section provides some examples to give some
> understanding of the essential possibilities.

Author: ```suggestion
Having prepared a buildable and runnable module, we can now extend the logic
of our implementation:
* Add a variable to your interface, and publish it;
* Add a second module which requires the ``interface_tutorial_module`` interface and sends commands or subscribes to variables.
```
